# Gradle tutorials
## gradle.setting file
### The `settings.gradle` file is configuration file used by Gradle to 
define settings for multi project build. It is typically located in the root
directory of Gradle project and has the filename `settings.gradle`
In this file, you can define the structure of your multi-project build and specify which projects to include in the build.
Here is an example of what a simple 
```java
rootProject.name = 'my-project'

include 'module1'
include 'module2'

```

## build.gradle file
### The `build.gradle` file is the main configuration file for a Gradle Projct. It is typically located in the root directory of
the project and contains the build srcipt that Gralde uses to build the project

The build.gradle file defines various elements of the build process, including:

- Plugins: The plugins that the project uses to apply various functionality to the build, such as Java or Android plugins.
- Dependencies: The dependencies that the project requires to compile, run, or test the code, such as external libraries or frameworks.
- Tasks: The tasks that the build process will execute, such as compiling source code, running tests, or building an executable.
- Configurations: The configurations that define the classpath for the build, such as the compile classpath or the runtime classpath.

## sourceCompatibility
sourceCompatibility: This property is used to specify the version of the Java source code that the project uses. It ensures that the code is compatible with the specified Java version. In this case, the project is set to use Java version 17.


## bootJar
### In Gradle, the `bootJar` task is provided by the SpringBoot plugin, which is used for building Spring Boot applications. The `bootJar` task is used to build a Jar file that contains the application code and its dependencies
```java
    bootJar{
        enabled = true
        }
```
#### In the code snippet you provided, the enabled property is set to true for the bootJar task. This means that the task is enabled and will run when the gradle build command is executed. If enabled is set to false, the bootJar task will be skipped and not executed.

## jar
```java
    jar{
        enabled=true
        }
```
### The `jar` task in Gradle is used to build a Jar File from the project's complied classes. It is typically used for non-Spring Boot java projects
In the code snippet you provided, the enabled property is set to true for the jar task. This means that the task is enabled and will run when the gradle build command is executed. If enabled is set to false, the jar task will be skipped and not executed.
## compileJava
```java
    compileJava {
        dependsOn 'generateSources'
        }
```
### The `compileJava` task in Gradle is responsible for  compiling the Java source code in to class files.
It is automatically creadted by Gradle for Java projects and is executed as part of the `gradle build` command
In the code snippet you provided, the dependsOn method is called on the compileJava task with no arguments. The dependsOn method is used to declare a task dependency, meaning that the task depends on another task to be executed first.


In this case, since no task is specified as a dependency, the dependsOn method call has no effect. If you wanted to specify a task dependency for compileJava, you would pass the name of the task as an argument to the dependsOn method.

For example, if you wanted to make the compileJava task depend on the generateSources task, you would write:

```arduino
Copy code
compileJava {
dependsOn 'generateSources'
}
```
## sourceSets
```java
    sourceSets{
        main{
        java{
        srcDir += ["$buildDir/openapi/server/src/main/java"]
        }
        }
        }
```
### In the code snippet you provided, the `sourceSets` block is used to configure the source sets for the project. Source sets are used to specify the different source code directories used in the project

The main source set is the default source set used by Gradle for a project. The java block within the main source set is used to configure the Java source code directories for the project.

In this case, the srcDir property is modified to include the directory $buildDir/openapi/server/src/main/java. This directory contains the generated server-side code for the API, which was generated by the buildOpenApi task. By including this directory in the srcDir property, the Java compiler will look for source code files in this directory in addition to the default directories specified for the main source set.

This is necessary because the generated server-side code needs to be compiled as part of the project. By including the directory in the srcDir property, the compiler will be able to find the generated code and compile it as part of the project.